# PSO
This project uses PSO to find the shortest path between the two points in a static environment with obstacles.

 Smooth and safe navigation of mobile robot through cluttered environment from start position to goal position with following safe path and producing optimal path length is the main aim of mobile robot navigation. So, motion planning is a key element of robotics since it empowers a robot to navigate autonomously. Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is a simple, yet a very powerful optimization technique which has been effectively used in many complex multi-dimensional optimization problems. This project proposes a path planning algorithm based on particle swarm optimization for computing a shortest collision-free path for a robot in environments populated with static obstacles. The proposed algorithm finds the optimal path by performing random sampling on grid lines generated between the robot start and goal positions. Functionality of the proposed algorithm is illustrated via simulation results for different scenarios.
 
There are two kinds of path planning for robot; online path planning and offline path planning. In online path planning, the work environment is unknown and thus the coordinates of obstacles and traps are not known. In online path planning, the robot starts its path and uses suitable algorithm only when it detects obstacles. While in offline path planning, the work environment is already known. The coordinates of obstacles are known before the robot starts its path. In offline path planning, an oprimal path is generated for the robot on which it starts moving once path planning is completed. Both types of path planner has their own use. Online path planning is used for search of unknown while offline path planning is used for moving in known environment.
In this project, offline path planning is used and thus first and foremost, an environment needs to be created.

